README.md, before:

# Eufy-Clean (Home Assistant Custom Component)

## Overview
This repository is a maintained fork of [eufy-clean](https://github.com/jeppesens/eufy-clean) by [jeppesens](https://github.com/jeppesens), which was originally based on [eufy-clean](https://github.com/martijnpoppen/eufy-clean) by martijnpoppen.

This project provides an interface to interact with Eufy cleaning devices via MQTT, with a specific focus on maintaining a robust **Home Assistant Custom Component**. It allows you to control cleaning scenes, specific rooms, and manage station configurations (wash frequency, auto-empty, etc.) directly from your smart home dashboard.

## FAQ
- This repo only has support for MQTT enabled Eufy Vacuums, which means you need to have a device that supports MQTT. E.g the Robovac X10 Pro Omni.
- This code was ported and tested on a Robovac X10 Pro Omni, but it should work on other models as well 🤞🏼
- This is a personal project maintained for Home Assistant users. Contributions are welcome!

## Features

This custom component provides comprehensive control over your Eufy robot vacuum and its cleaning station:

### Vacuum Control
- **Start/Stop/Pause** cleaning operations
- **Return to dock** command
- **Scene Selection** - Trigger pre-configured cleaning scenes (e.g., "Full Home Deep Clean") directly via a dynamic select entity or service call
- **Room-specific cleaning** - Clean individual rooms or combinations of rooms
- **Battery monitoring** - Track battery level and charging status

### Dock tasks
- **wash mop** - trigger washing of the mop
- **dry mop** - trigger drying of the mop
- **stop dry mop** - stop the drying process
- **empty dust bin** - trigger emptying of the dust bin

### Dock Configuration
All dock settings are organized under the **Configuration** category in your device settings:

#### Mop Washing Settings
- **Wash Frequency Mode**: Choose between `ByRoom` (wash after each room) or `ByTime` (wash after set duration)
- **Wash Frequency Value**: Set wash interval from 15-25 minutes (when using ByTime mode)
- **Auto Mop Washing**: Enable/disable automatic mop washing

#### Drying Settings
- **Dry Duration**: Choose drying time - `2h`, `3h`, or `4h`

#### Auto-Empty Settings
- **Auto Empty**: Enable/disable the auto-empty feature
- **Auto Empty Mode**: Configure emptying frequency:
  - `Smart`: Intelligent auto-detection
  - `15 min`, `30 min`, `45 min`, `60 min`: Fixed time intervals

### Accessory Maintenance
The integration tracks the usage of consumable accessories and allows you to reset them after replacement.

#### Sensors
-   **Consumable Life**: Monitors the remaining life (in hours) for:
    -   Filter
    -   Side Brush
    -   Rolling Brush
    -   Sensors
    -   Mop
    -   Cleaning Tray (Scrape)

#### Reset Buttons
-   Dedicated buttons are available to reset the usage counter for each accessory when you replace them.

> [!NOTE]
> The Eufy App displays two types of accessory tracking: "Maintenance" (recommended cleaning) and "Replacement". The "Maintenance" alerts are often calculated locally by the App based on time intervals and are **not** transmitted via MQTT. This integration only tracks the "Replacement" life, which is the actual usage data reported by the device firmware.

### Sensors
- Battery level percentage
- Charging status
- Work status and mode
- **Extended Device Info**: Serial number, MAC address, and Firmware version are now available in the device info panel.
- **Error Tracking**: Real-time error monitoring with detailed descriptions (e.g., "Wheel Stuck", "Sensor Dirty") available as attributes and sensors.

## Usage

### Installation via HACS
1.  Open HACS in Home Assistant.
2.  Add this repository as a custom repository.
3.  Install "Eufy Robovac MQTT".
4.  Restart Home Assistant.

### Configuration
1.  Go to Settings -> Devices & Services.
2.  Click "Add Integration".
3.  Search for "Eufy Robovac MQTT" and follow the setup flow.
4.  Login with your Eufy App credentials.

### Cleaning Scenes
The integration provides a dynamic **Scene** select entity (under the Configuration category) that automatically populates with all **valid** scenes from your Eufy app. Selecting an option in the UI will immediately trigger that cleaning routine.

Alternatively, you can use the following service call:
```yaml
action: vacuum.send_command
metadata: {}
data:
    command: scene_clean
    params:
        scene: 5
target:
    entity_id: vacuum.robovac_x10_pro_omni
```
*Note: The `scene` parameter corresponds to scene numbers. Default scenes are typically 1-3, with custom scenes starting from 4.*

### Cleaning Specific Rooms

The integration provides two ways to clean specific rooms:

1.  **Room Selection Entity**: A dynamic select entity (under the **Configuration** category) that automatically populates with all discovered rooms from your current active map. Selecting a room will trigger a clean for that specific room.
2.  **Service Call**: For more advanced automation, you can use the following service call:

```yaml
action: vacuum.send_command
target:
  entity_id: vacuum.robovac_x10_pro_omni
data:
  command: room_clean
  params:
    map_id: 4
    room_ids:
      - 3
      - 4
```

### Map and Room Identification
- **Active Map Sensor**: Use the `sensor.[vacuum_name]_active_map` entity to see which map the vacuum is currently on (e.g., `4`, `6`). This is useful for providing the correct `map_id` in service calls.
- **Map Switching**: **Currently not supported.** If you need to switch the active map, you must do so within the official Eufy Clean app. Once switched, the integration will automatically update the `Active Map` sensor and `Room Selection` list.
- **Room IDs**: If you are using service calls, you can find your room IDs directly in the **Room Selection** dropdown, where they are displayed alongside the room names (e.g., `Kitchen (ID: 3)`). This eliminates the need to dig through logs or the mobile app.

> [!TIP]
> If you get an error like "Unable to identify position", it's likely that the `map_id` provided in your service call doesn't match the vacuum's current hardware map. Check the **Active Map** sensor to verify.

## Development
This project is maintained as a Home Assistant component. Issues and PRs should be relevant to the integration's functionality within Home Assistant.

### Pending Features
- Clean room(s) with custom cleaning mode
- Map management
- Locate device
- Current position

### Local Development & Testing
Included in this repository is a `docker-compose.yml` file to facilitate local testing of the integration.

1.  Ensure you have Docker and Docker Compose installed.
2.  Run `docker compose up` in the root directory.
3.  This will start a local Home Assistant instance accessible at `http://localhost:8123`.
4.  The `custom_components/robovac_mqtt` directory is mounted into the container, making the custom component available in Home Assistant.
5.  You will have to follow the steps mentioned in ### configuration to add your device to home assistant the first time you start the container. After that, you can stop the container and restart it whenever you want to make changes to the custom component.

## Contact
For any questions or issues, please open an issue on the GitHub repository.

---
<br>
<b>Happy Cleaning! 🧹✨</b>

Commit message:

feat: add custom room cleaning parameters
Support per-room settings: fan/water level, mode, intensity, edge-clean, repeats.

README.md, after:

# Eufy-Clean (Home Assistant Custom Component)

## Overview
This repository is a maintained fork of [eufy-clean](https://github.com/jeppesens/eufy-clean) by [jeppesens](https://github.com/jeppesens), which was originally based on [eufy-clean](https://github.com/martijnpoppen/eufy-clean) by martijnpoppen.

This project provides an interface to interact with Eufy cleaning devices via MQTT, with a specific focus on maintaining a robust **Home Assistant Custom Component**. It allows you to control cleaning scenes, specific rooms, and manage station configurations (wash frequency, auto-empty, etc.) directly from your smart home dashboard.

## FAQ
- This repo only has support for MQTT enabled Eufy Vacuums, which means you need to have a device that supports MQTT. E.g the Robovac X10 Pro Omni.
- This code was ported and tested on a Robovac X10 Pro Omni, but it should work on other models as well 🤞🏼
- This is a personal project maintained for Home Assistant users. Contributions are welcome!

## Features

This custom component provides comprehensive control over your Eufy robot vacuum and its cleaning station:

### Vacuum Control
- **Start/Stop/Pause** cleaning operations
- **Return to dock** command
- **Scene Selection** - Trigger pre-configured cleaning scenes (e.g., "Full Home Deep Clean") directly via a dynamic select entity or service call
- **Room-specific cleaning** - Clean individual rooms or combinations of rooms
- **Battery monitoring** - Track battery level and charging status

### Dock tasks
- **wash mop** - trigger washing of the mop
- **dry mop** - trigger drying of the mop
- **stop dry mop** - stop the drying process
- **empty dust bin** - trigger emptying of the dust bin

### Dock Configuration
All dock settings are organized under the **Configuration** category in your device settings:

#### Mop Washing Settings
- **Wash Frequency Mode**: Choose between `ByRoom` (wash after each room) or `ByTime` (wash after set duration)
- **Wash Frequency Value**: Set wash interval from 15-25 minutes (when using ByTime mode)
- **Auto Mop Washing**: Enable/disable automatic mop washing

#### Drying Settings
- **Dry Duration**: Choose drying time - `2h`, `3h`, or `4h`

#### Auto-Empty Settings
- **Auto Empty**: Enable/disable the auto-empty feature
- **Auto Empty Mode**: Configure emptying frequency:
  - `Smart`: Intelligent auto-detection
  - `15 min`, `30 min`, `45 min`, `60 min`: Fixed time intervals

### Accessory Maintenance
The integration tracks the usage of consumable accessories and allows you to reset them after replacement.

#### Sensors
-   **Consumable Life**: Monitors the remaining life (in hours) for:
    -   Filter
    -   Side Brush
    -   Rolling Brush
    -   Sensors
    -   Mop
    -   Cleaning Tray (Scrape)

#### Reset Buttons
-   Dedicated buttons are available to reset the usage counter for each accessory when you replace them.

> [!NOTE]
> The Eufy App displays two types of accessory tracking: "Maintenance" (recommended cleaning) and "Replacement". The "Maintenance" alerts are often calculated locally by the App based on time intervals and are **not** transmitted via MQTT. This integration only tracks the "Replacement" life, which is the actual usage data reported by the device firmware.

### Sensors
- Battery level percentage
- Charging status
- Work status and mode
- **Extended Device Info**: Serial number, MAC address, and Firmware version are now available in the device info panel.
- **Error Tracking**: Real-time error monitoring with detailed descriptions (e.g., "Wheel Stuck", "Sensor Dirty") available as attributes and sensors.

## Usage

### Installation via HACS
1.  Open HACS in Home Assistant.
2.  Add this repository as a custom repository.
3.  Install "Eufy Robovac MQTT".
4.  Restart Home Assistant.

### Configuration
1.  Go to Settings -> Devices & Services.
2.  Click "Add Integration".
3.  Search for "Eufy Robovac MQTT" and follow the setup flow.
4.  Login with your Eufy App credentials.

### Cleaning Scenes
The integration provides a dynamic **Scene** select entity (under the Configuration category) that automatically populates with all **valid** scenes from your Eufy app. Selecting an option in the UI will immediately trigger that cleaning routine.

Alternatively, you can use the following service call:
```yaml
action: vacuum.send_command
metadata: {}
data:
    command: scene_clean
    params:
        scene: 5
target:
    entity_id: vacuum.robovac_x10_pro_omni
```
*Note: The `scene` parameter corresponds to scene numbers. Default scenes are typically 1-3, with custom scenes starting from 4.*

### Cleaning Specific Rooms

The integration provides two ways to clean specific rooms:


1.  **Room Selection Entity**: A dynamic select entity (under the **Configuration** category) that automatically populates with all discovered rooms from your current active map. Selecting a room will trigger a clean for that specific room.
2.  **Service Call**: For more advanced automation, you can use the following service call. You can optionally specify `fan_speed`, `water_level`, and `clean_times` to customize the cleaning for these rooms.

```yaml
action: vacuum.send_command
target:
  entity_id: vacuum.robovac_x10_pro_omni
data:
  command: room_clean
  params:
    map_id: 4
    room_ids:
      - 3
      - 4
    # Optional Custom Parameters
    fan_speed: "Turbo"         # Options: Quiet, Standard, Turbo, Max
    water_level: "High"        # Options: Low, Standard, High
    clean_times: 2             # Number of cleaning passes
    clean_mode: "vacuum_mop"   # Options: vacuum, mop, vacuum_mop (or vacuum_and_mop, sweep_and_mop)
    clean_intensity: "Deep"    # Options: Fast, Standard, Deep
    edge_mopping: true         # Options: true, false (Enable edge-hugging mopping)
```

### Map and Room Identification
- **Active Map Sensor**: Use the `sensor.[vacuum_name]_active_map` entity to see which map the vacuum is currently on (e.g., `4`, `6`). This is useful for providing the correct `map_id` in service calls.
- **Map Switching**: **Currently not supported.** If you need to switch the active map, you must do so within the official Eufy Clean app. Once switched, the integration will automatically update the `Active Map` sensor and `Room Selection` list.
- **Room IDs**: If you are using service calls, you can find your room IDs directly in the **Room Selection** dropdown, where they are displayed alongside the room names (e.g., `Kitchen (ID: 3)`). This eliminates the need to dig through logs or the mobile app.

> [!TIP]
> If you get an error like "Unable to identify position", it's likely that the `map_id` provided in your service call doesn't match the vacuum's current hardware map. Check the **Active Map** sensor to verify.

## Development
This project is maintained as a Home Assistant component. Issues and PRs should be relevant to the integration's functionality within Home Assistant.

### Pending Features
- Map management
- Locate device
- Current position

### Local Development & Testing
Included in this repository is a `docker-compose.yml` file to facilitate local testing of the integration.

1.  Ensure you have Docker and Docker Compose installed.
2.  Run `docker compose up` in the root directory.
3.  This will start a local Home Assistant instance accessible at `http://localhost:8123`.
4.  The `custom_components/robovac_mqtt` directory is mounted into the container, making the custom component available in Home Assistant.
5.  You will have to follow the steps mentioned in ### configuration to add your device to home assistant the first time you start the container. After that, you can stop the container and restart it whenever you want to make changes to the custom component.

## Contact
For any questions or issues, please open an issue on the GitHub repository.

---
<br>
<b>Happy Cleaning! 🧹✨</b>
